---
title: the mechanism of JNI
description: design and implement and use of JNI
categories:
 - android
tags: [JNI]
---

# JNI
## why I research JNI?
we need to emulate the pure process of JNI mechanism. The nativebridge is also to emulate the pure process of JNI mechanism.
## why we need a Java method to call a native method?
we want to complete some task in native programming way.
## how can we call a native method through Java method?
we can use JNI. The JNI is a native programming interface. The Java VM vendor can add support for the JNI without affecting other parts of the VM.


## native method how to communicate with Java world, that is, complete the following job?
1. create, inspect, and update Java objects(including arrays and strings)
2. call Java methods
3. Catch and throw exceptions
4. load classes and obtain class information

## how make a existing native application Java-enabled without linking with the VM source code?
You can use the JNI with the Invocation API to enable an arbitrary native application to embed the Java VM. 

## how let Java VM support JNI?
When you implement a Java VM, you should implement the JNI. JNI has been time tested and ensured to not impose any overhead or restrictions on your VM implementation, including object representation, garbage collection scheme, and so on.

## Design overview(relate to native method)
Reference https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/design.html#wp9502
## how accesses Java VM features through Native code?
calling JNI functions. JNI functions are available through an interface pointer. (An interface pointer is a pointer to a pointer. This pointer points to an array of pointers, each of which points to an interface function.)The JNI interface pointer is only valid in current thread. Native methods receive the JNI interface pointer as an argument.

## In Java program, how to load the native lib?
(let native method to complete some task, after declare, to call it.)
In Java side, declare the method,
class loader, the class initialization method loads a platform-specific native library in which the native method f is defined.

~~下面这段话是什么意思，得看看java里的class和class loader分别都是什么含义？~~
The programmer may use a single library to store all the native methods needed by any number of classes, as long as these classes are to be loaded with the same class loader. The VM internally maintains a list of loaded native libraries for each class loader. 
## What is Java class loader?
Class loaders are responsible for loading Java classes dynamically to the JVM (Java Virtual Machine) during runtime. They're also part of the JRE (Java Runtime Environment). Therefore, the JVM doesn't need to know about the underlying files or file systems in order to run Java programs thanks to class loaders.

```java
package pkg;
class Cls {
    native double f(int i, String s);
    static {
        System.loadLibrary("pkg_Cls");
    }
}
```
## after declare in java side, what method name should we use in native side so as to let dynamic linker resolve native method name?
We adopted a simple name-mangling scheme, 

## when we implement the native method, what is method's arguments?
1. The JNI interface pointer is the first argument to native methods, The JNI interface pointer is of type JNIEnv. 
2. The second argument differs depending on whether the native method is static or nonstatic. The second argument to a nonstatic native method is a reference to the object. The second argument to a static native method is a reference to its Java class.
3. The remaining arguments correspond to regular Java method arguments. 
4. The native method call passes its result back to the calling routine via the return value.

an example:
```java
package pkg;  

class Cls { 

     native double f(int i, String s); 

     ... 

} 

```
The C function with the long mangled name Java_pkg_Cls_f_ILjava_lang_String_2 implements native method f:
 Implementing a Native Method Using C
```c
jdouble Java_pkg_Cls_f__ILjava_lang_String_2 (
     JNIEnv *env,        /* interface pointer */
     jobject obj,        /* "this" pointer */
     jint i,             /* argument #1 */
     jstring s)          /* argument #2 */
{
     /* Obtain a C-copy of the Java string */
     const char *str = (*env)->GetStringUTFChars(env, s, 0);

     /* process the string */
     ...

     /* Now we are done with str */
     (*env)->ReleaseStringUTFChars(env, s, str);

     return ...
}
```
Note that we always manipulate Java objects using the interface pointer env.
Implementing a Native Method Using C++
```cpp
jdouble Java_pkg_Cls_f__ILjava_lang_String_2 (
     JNIEnv *env,        /* interface pointer */
     jobject obj,        /* "this" pointer */
     jint i,             /* argument #1 */
     jstring s)          /* argument #2 */
{
     /* Obtain a C-copy of the Java string */
     const char *str = (*env)->GetStringUTFChars(env, s, 0);

     /* process the string */
     ...

     /* Now we are done with str */
     (*env)->ReleaseStringUTFChars(env, s, str);

     return ...
}
```

## design (the invocation API)
Reference
https://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/invocation.html#wp9502

The Invocation API allows software vendors to load the Java VM into an arbitrary native application. Vendors can deliver Java-enabled applications without having to link with the Java VM source code.

In this example, the C++ code creates a Java VM and invokes a static method, called Main.test. For clarity, we omit error checking.
```cpp
    #include <jni.h>       /* where everything is defined */
    ...
    JavaVM *jvm;       /* denotes a Java VM */
    JNIEnv *env;       /* pointer to native method interface */
    JavaVMInitArgs vm_args; /* JDK/JRE 6 VM initialization arguments */
    JavaVMOption* options = new JavaVMOption[1];
    options[0].optionString = "-Djava.class.path=/usr/lib/java";
    vm_args.version = JNI_VERSION_1_6;
    vm_args.nOptions = 1;
    vm_args.options = options;
    vm_args.ignoreUnrecognized = false;
    /* load and initialize a Java VM, return a JNI interface
     * pointer in env */
    JNI_CreateJavaVM(&jvm, (void**)&env, &vm_args);
    delete options;
    /* invoke the Main.test method using the JNI */
    jclass cls = env->FindClass("Main");
    jmethodID mid = env->GetStaticMethodID(cls, "test", "(I)V");
    env->CallStaticVoidMethod(cls, mid, 100);
    /* We are done. */
    jvm->DestroyJavaVM();
```
This example uses three functions in the API. The Invocation API allows a native application to use the JNI interface pointer to access VM features.
## JNI_OnLoad
JNI_OnLoad
```c
jint JNI_OnLoad(JavaVM *vm, void *reserved);
```


The VM calls JNI_OnLoad when the native library is loaded (for example, through System.loadLibrary). JNI_OnLoad must return the JNI version needed by the native library.




JNI functions are available through an interface pointer. 

The JNI interface pointer is only valid in the current thread. A native method, therefore, must not pass the interface pointer from one thread to another. A VM implementing the JNI may allocate and store thread-local data in the area pointed to by the JNI interface pointer.

Native methods receive the JNI interface pointer as an argument. The VM is guaranteed to pass the same interface pointer to a native method when it makes multiple calls to the native method from the same Java thread. However, a native method can be called from different Java threads, and therefore may receive different JNI interface pointers.

The JNI interface pointer is the first argument to native methods. The JNI interface pointer is of type JNIEnv. The second argument differs depending on whether the native method is static or nonstatic. The second argument to a nonstatic native method is a reference to the object. The second argument to a static native method is a reference to its Java class.


在加载一个JNI动态库的时候，会调用其中的JNI_OnLoad函数
在JavaVMExt::LoadNativeLibrary中完成，会尝试加载两次，第一次使用本平台dlopen,dlsym，第二次使用nativebridge
调用函数SharedLibrary::FindSymbolWithNativeBridge来在动态库中查找JNI_OnLoad函数，类似于dlsym，只是通过nativebridge来dlsym
# Reference  (baidu JNI nativebridge)
https://blog.csdn.net/roland_sun/article/details/49688311
https://blog.csdn.net/weixin_42350544/article/details/117587583



# JNI in Android
## 如何在编译android app时指定JNI库的硬件架构版本？？？
android app有几种编译方式？
在各种不同方式下如何指定？
